<!-- TITLE:2. The virtual file system -->

# Data
All the data loaded by TrackMasters can be divided in two categories:
* **Hard data**, usually compiled in scrambled or obfuscated archives and that cannot be modified or should not be tampered with
* **Soft data**, which is clear data stored in common formats, and that can be modified by mounting ModPacks in the** Virtual File System**.

| Hard data | | Soft data |
| -------- | - | -------- |
| Game code (C#) | | AI Code (Lua) |
| Existing textures | | Sound registers (XML)  |
| Existing models | | Sound banks |
| Existing track elements | | Additional track elements |
| Existing vehicles | | Hosts configuration file (XML) |
|     | | Localization files (XML) |

The Soft data of TrackMasters can be more closely inspected by taking a look at the `SOFTDATA` folder, in the game's root directory. The game root's directory location depends on your installation, but you will usually find it in `C:\Program Files(x86)\Steam\steamapps\common\LS_TrackMasters\`. 

The Soft data directory contains data that you can override with a mod to change the game's behaviour. However, you can also add files to your modpack that aren't present in the Soft data directory to add entirely new content to the game.

:::warning Do not alter the contents SOFTDATA folder
You can copy the soft data from TrackMasters to your Work Directory for further inspection and/or modification. It is on the other hand **strongly advised against** modifying the softdata from the base game directly.
Modifying the soft data from TrackMasters directly without using modpacks **will** lead to compatibility issues, gameplay issues, and is likely to corrupt your new tracks.
All game modification should be done via the use of Modpacks, and never by modifying the game files directly
:::

# Mounting
When loading game data, TrackMasters does not use absolute disk paths (like `C:/Program Files/TrackMasters...`) but rather uses virtual paths (`SOUND/BANK/bgm_frontend.ogg` for example).
A virtual path is the path to a resource inside the Soft data folder, considering the Soft data directory as the root of the path.

If the game wants to load the file situated in `<Soft data folder>/SOUND/BANK/bgm_frontend.ogg`, it queries the virtual path (`SOUND/BANK/bgm_frontend.ogg`) and then a script inside TrackMasters is tasked with converting that path to an actual, physical disk path (`C:\Program Files\...\LS_TrackMaster\SOFTDATA\SOUND\REGISTERS`).

To have a physical file or folder used by the game, it must be assigned a virtual path by the game - this processed is called **Mounting**. 
The contents of the soft data directory are mounted at the start of the game, which means that every file under the soft data folder can be accessed by the game with virtual paths.
Once the soft data mounted, the game then mounts every modpack in order (alphabetical filename order).

As a virtual path can only correspond to one physical file on disk, if a modpack contains a file located that would be located at the same virtual path than a previously loaded file (for example, a file from the soft data directory), the previous file is **overriden** with this one. When resolving a virtual path to a physical path, the game will only account for the **last loaded asset** with the corresponding virtual path.

## Example
* No mods are loaded. The soft data directory is mounted at the start of the game.
* The game wants to access the sound for the main menu. This sound is located at the virtual path `SOUND/BANK/bgm_frontend.ogg`
* The game resolves `SOUND/BANK/bgm_frontend.ogg` to the file located at the same path under the soft data directory
* The game therefore opens the file `C:\Program Files\...\LS_TrackMaster\SOFTDATA\SOUND\BANK\bgm_frontend.ogg` for reading and plays the music.

Now let's say you have a modpack which is supposed to replace that file. Your modpack contains a different music, named `bgm_frontend.ogg` aswell, and located in `SOUND\BANK` inside your PAK.

* The soft data directory is mounted at the start of the game.
* Your modpack is mounted right after, and overwrites the path that `SOUND/BANK/bgm_frontend.ogg` was pointing to (`C:/Program Files/...`)) with its own (`<Mods directory>/My Mod.pak/SOUND/BANK/bgm_frontend.ogg`).
* The game resolves `SOUND/BANK/bgm_frontend.ogg` to the last file loaded with that path, which is the one inside your mod
* The game therefore opens the file `C:/Users/.../Documents/My games/TrackMasters/Mods/My mod.pak/SOUND/BANK/bgm_frontend.ogg` for reading and plays the music
# Modding state (LEVEL)
The game keeps an internal "modding state" internally named the LEVEL, which is used to determine what kind of games you can join or host. With it, the game knows if you can join someone with different (or none) modpacks as you, for example.

Depending on what data you add to the virtual file system, the game will alter its LEVEL to then allow or disallow certain network functionalities. 
Four levels exist:

| LEVEL | Description |
| -------- | -------- | 
| `VANILLA`  (0)    | The player can host and join|
| `AUTONOMY`  (1)     | Modpacks are mounted |
| `ADDITIONAL_CONTENT`  (2) | Modpacks with additional trackparts are mounted |
| `ALTERED CONTENT`  (3)  | Unused |

# Custom content
Even though you can add all kind of data to your modpack, it's not because it's present in the modpack that it will be used by the game.
Here is a short summary of the virtual paths in used by the game, by default, and how adding them to your modpack will elevate your modding state.

| Virtual path | Level | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- |
| `AI/<The first file found>.LUA`     | `AUTONOMY`   | The first .LUA file found in this folder will be read and used to play the AI-controlled cars in the game (CPU opponents). More at [Create AIs](/home/create-ais.md)  |
| `LOCALZTN/<Any folder>`     | `AUTONOMY`   | Each folder found in `LOCALZTN` will be loaded as a valid, selectable language ingame. More at [Create localizations](/home/create-localizations.md)  |
| `LOCALZTN/SOUND/REGISTERS/<Any file>.XML`     | `AUTONOMY`   | Each file found in this folder will be read as a soundbank register and interpreted further to load sounds. More at [Add or change sounds](/home/add-or-change-sounds.md)  |
| `LOCALZTN/SOUND/BANK/...`     | `AUTONOMY`   | This folder is used by the default soundbank register to read sounds from, but has nothing special to it. You can point the soundbank register to point at anything else. |
| `HOSTS.XML`     | `AUTONOMY`   | This XML file contains information about which network addresses to connect to fetch the list of games (BROADCAST), the tracks (API) or to connect to other players via relay (RELAY)  |
| `KEYS.XML`     | `AUTONOMY`   | This XML file contains public cryptographic keys used to communicate securely with the server  |
| `TRACKPCS` |  `ADDITIONAL_CONTENT` | Track parts added to this folder will be loaded by the game automatically, and added to the track editor's catalog. More at [Create track elements](/home/create-trackparts.md)  |
| `VEHICLES` |  `ALTERED_CONTENT` | This folder is unused at the moment, but may serve in the future to load custom vehicles. |

**Continue to [3. Packing](/home/3-packing.md)...**